# Preparation Prerequisites

During the preparation, we need to ensure that we have:

- Skilled incident handling team members (incident handling team members can be outsourced, but a basic capability and understanding of incident handling are necessary in-house regardless)
- Trained workforce (as much as possible, through security awareness activities or other means of training)
- Clear policies and documentation
- Tools (software and hardware)
### Clear Policies & Documentation

Some of the written policies and documentation should contain an up-to-date version of the following information:

- Contact information and roles of the incident handling team members
- Contact information for the legal and compliance department, management team, IT support, communications and media relations department, law enforcement, internet service providers, facility management, and external incident response team
- Incident response policy, plan, and procedures
- Incident information sharing policy and procedures
- Baselines of systems and networks, out of a golden image and a clean state environment
- Network diagrams
- Organization-wide asset management database
- User accounts with excessive privileges that can be used on-demand by the team when necessary (also to business-critical systems, which are handled with the skills needed to administer that specific system). These user accounts are normally enabled when an incident is confirmed during the initial investigation and then disabled once it is over. A mandatory password reset is also performed when disabling the users.
- Ability to acquire hardware, software, or an external resource without a complete procurement process (urgent purchase of up to a certain amount). The last thing you need during an incident is to wait for weeks for the approval of a $500 tool.
- Forensic/Investigative cheat sheets

Some of the non-severe cases may be handled relatively quickly and without too much friction within the organization or outside of it. Other cases may require law enforcement notification and external communication to customers and third-party vendors, especially in cases of legal concerns arising from the incident. For example, a data breach involving customer data has to be reported to law enforcement within a certain time threshold in accordance with GDPR.

> [!NOTE] **IMPORTANT**
> While having documentation in place is vital, it is also important to document the incident as you investigate. Therefore, during this stage you will also have to establish an effective reporting capability. Incidents can be extremely stressful, and it becomes easy to forget this part as the incident unfolds itself, especially when you are focused and going extremely fast in order to solve it as soon as possible. Try to remain calm, take notes, and ensure that these notes contain timestamps, the activity performed, the result of it, and who did it. Overall, you should seek answers to who, what, when, where, why and how.

### Tools (Software & Hardware)

Moving forward, we also need to ensure that we have the right tools to perform the job. These include, but are not limited to:

- Additional laptop or a forensic workstation for each incident handling team member to preserve disk images and log files, perform data analysis, and investigate without any restrictions (we know malware will be tested here, so tools such as antivirus should be disabled). These devices should be handled appropriately and not in a way that introduces risks to the organization.
- Digital forensic image acquisition and analysis tools
- Memory capture and analysis tools
- Live response capture and analysis
- Log analysis tools
- Network capture and analysis tools
- Network cables and switches
- Write blockers
- Hard drives for forensic imaging
- Power cables
- Screwdrivers, tweezers, and other relevant tools to repair or disassemble hardware devices if needed
- Indicator of Compromise (IOC) creator and the ability to search for IOCs across the organization
- Chain of custody forms
- Encryption software
- Ticket tracking system
- Secure facility for storage and investigation
- Incident handling system independent of your organization's infrastructure

Many of the tools mentioned above will be part of what is known as a `jump bag` - always ready with the necessary tools to be picked up and leave immediately.

### Protecting Against Incidents
##### DMARC
[DMARC](https://dmarcly.com/blog/how-to-implement-dmarc-dkim-spf-to-stop-email-spoofing-phishing-the-definitive-guide#what-is-dmarc) is an email protection against phishing built on top of the already existing [SPF](https://dmarcly.com/blog/how-to-implement-dmarc-dkim-spf-to-stop-email-spoofing-phishing-the-definitive-guide#what-is-spf) and [DKIM](https://dmarcly.com/blog/how-to-implement-dmarc-dkim-spf-to-stop-email-spoofing-phishing-the-definitive-guide#what-is-dkim). The idea behind DMARC is to reject emails that 'pretend' to originate from your organization. Therefore, if an adversary is spoofing an email pretending to be an employee asking for an invoice to be paid, the system will reject the email before it reaches the intended recipient. DMARC is easy and inexpensive to implement, however, I cannot stress enough that thorough testing is mandatory; otherwise (and this is oftentimes the case), you 
risk blocking legitimate emails with no ability to recover them.

##### Endpoint Hardening (& EDR)
Endpoint devices (workstations, laptops, etc.) are the entry points for most of the attacks that we are facing on a daily basis. If we consider the fact that most threats will originate from the internet and will target users who are browsing websites, opening attachments, or running malicious executables, a percentage of this activity will occur from their corporate endpoints.

There are a few widely recognized endpoint hardening standards by now, with CIS and Microsoft baselines being the most popular, and these should really be the building blocks for your organization's hardening baselines. Some highly important actions (that actually work) to note and do something about are:

- Disable LLMNR/NetBIOS
- Implement LAPS and remove administrative privileges from regular users
- Disable or configure PowerShell in "`ConstrainedLanguage`" mode
- Enable Attack Surface Reduction (ASR) rules if using Microsoft Defender
- Implement whitelisting. We know this is nearly impossible to implement. Consider at least blocking execution from user-writable folders (Downloads, Desktop, AppData, etc.). These are the locations where exploits and malicious payloads will initially find themselves. Remember to also block script types such as .hta, .vbs, .cmd, .bat, .js, and similar. Please pay attention to [LOLBin](https://lolbas-project.github.io) files while implementing whitelisting. Do not overlook them; they are really used in the wild as initial access to bypass whitelisting.
- Utilize host-based firewalls. As a bare minimum, block workstation-to-workstation communication and block outbound traffic to LOLBins
- Deploy an EDR product. At this point in time, [AMSI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/amsi/how-amsi-helps) provides great visibility into obfuscated scripts for antimalware products to inspect the content before it gets executed. It is highly recommended that you only choose products that integrate with AMSI.

When it comes to hardening, `Don't let perfect be the enemy of good`.

##### Network Protection
Network segmentation is a powerful technique to avoid having a breach spread across the entire organization. Business-critical systems must be isolated, and connections should be allowed only as the business requires. Internal resources should really not be facing the Internet directly (unless placed in a DMZ).

Additionally, when speaking of network protection you should consider IDS/IPS systems. Their power really shines when SSL/TLS interception is performed so that they can identify malicious traffic based on content on the wire and not based on reputation of IP addresses, which is a traditional and very inefficient way of detecting malicious traffic.

Additionally, ensure that only organization-approved devices can get on the network. Solutions such as 802.1x can be utilized to reduce the risk of bring your own device (BYOD) or malicious devices connecting to the corporate network. If you are a cloud-only company using, for example, Azure/Azure AD, then you can achieve similar protection with Conditional Access policies that will allow access to organization resources only if you are connecting from a company-managed device.

##### Privilege Identity Management / MFA / Passwords
At this point in time, stealing privileged user credentials is the most common escalation path in Active Directory environments. Additionally, a common mistake is that admin users either have a weak (but often complex) password or a shared password with their regular user account (which can be obtained via multiple attack vectors such as keylogging). If one knows a second language, they can mix up words from multiple languages for additional protection.

Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is another identity-protecting solution that should be implemented at least for any type of administrative access to **ALL** applications and devices.

##### Vulnerability Scanning
Perform continuous vulnerability scans of your environment and remediate at least the "high" and "critical" vulnerabilities that are discovered. While the scanning can be automated, the fixes usually require manual involvement. If you can't apply patches for some reason, definitely segment the systems that are vulnerable!

##### User Awareness Training
Training users to recognize suspicious behavior and report it when discovered is a big win for us. While it is unlikely to reach 100% success on this task, these trainings are known to significantly reduce the number of successful compromises. Periodic "surprise" testing should also be part of this training, including, for example, monthly phishing emails, dropped USB sticks in the office building, etc.

##### Active Directory Security Assessment
The best way to detect security misconfigurations or exposed critical vulnerabilities is by looking for them from the perspective of an attacker. Doing your own reviews (or hiring a third party if the skillset is missing from the organization) will ensure that when an endpoint device is compromised, the attacker will not have a one-step escalation possibility to high privileges on the network. The more additional tools and activity an attacker is generating, the higher the likelihood of you detecting them, so try to eliminate easy wins and low-hanging fruits as much as possible.

Active Directory has a few known and unique escalation paths/bugs. New ones are quite often discovered too. Active Directory security assessments are crucial for the security posture of the environment as a whole.

##### Purple Team Exercises
We need to train incident handlers and keep them engaged. There is no question about that, and the best place to do it is inside an organization's own environment. Purple team exercises are essentially security assessments by a red team that either continuously or eventually inform the blue team about their actions, findings, any visibility/security shortcomings, etc. Such exercises will help in identifying vulnerabilities in an organization while testing the blue team's defensive capability in terms of logging, monitoring, detection, and responsiveness. If a threat goes unnoticed, there is an opportunity to improve. For those that are detected, the blue team can test any playbooks and incident handling procedures to ensure they are robust and the expected result has been achieved.