It's good to enumerate and understand what security controls like EDR, anti-virus and policies are in place. This will help with our tool selection and future enumeration.
#### Windows Defender
```powershell
Get-MpComputerStatus
```
#### AppLocker
An application whitelist is a list of approved software applications or executables that are allowed to be present and run on a system.

If `%SystemRoot%\system32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\powershell.exe` is blocked with can open powershell using `%SystemRoot%\SysWOW64\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\powershell.exe` or `PowerShell_ISE.exe` instead.
```powershell
Get-AppLockerPolicy -Effective | select -ExpandProperty RuleCollections
```
#### PowerShell Constrained Language Mode
View if PowerShell is in `Full` or `Constrained` language mode.
```powershell
$ExecutionContext.SessionState.LanguageMode
```
#### LAPS
The Microsoft [Local Administrator Password Solution (LAPS)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=46899) is used to randomize and rotate local administrator passwords on Windows hosts and prevent lateral movement.

The [LAPSToolkit](https://github.com/leoloobeek/LAPSToolkit) greatly facilitates this with several functions. One is parsing `ExtendedRights` for all computers with LAPS enabled. This will show groups specifically delegated to read LAPS passwords, which are often users in protected groups. An account that has joined a computer to a domain receives `All Extended Rights` over that host, and this right gives the account the ability to read passwords. Enumeration may show a user account that can read the LAPS password on a host. This can help us target specific AD users who can read LAPS passwords.

```powershell
Find-LAPSDelegatedGroups
```
Check rights to read LAPS password on each computer
```powershell
Find-AdmPwdExtendedRights
```
Search for computers that have LAPS enabled when passwords expire, and even the randomized passwords in cleartext if our user has access.
```powershell
Get-LAPSComputers
```