Companies with larger budgets and more resources can hire their own dedicated `red teams` or use the services of third-party consulting firms to perform red team assessments. A red team consists of offensive security professionals who have considerable experience with penetration testing. A red team plays a vital role in an organization's security posture.

A red team is a type of evasive black box pentesting, simulating all kinds of cyber attacks from the perspective of an external threat actor. These assessments typically have an end goal (i.e., reaching a critical server or database, etc.). The assessors only report the vulnerabilities that led to the completion of the goal, not as many vulnerabilities as possible as with a penetration test.

If a company has its own internal red team, its job is to perform more targeted penetration tests with an insider's knowledge of its network. A red team should constantly be engaged in red teaming `campaigns`. Campaigns could be based on new cyber exploits discovered through the actions of `advanced persistent threat groups` (`APTs`), for example. Other campaigns could target specific types of vulnerabilities to explore them in great detail once an organization has been made aware of them.

Ideally, if a company can afford it and has been building up its security maturity, it should conduct regular vulnerability assessments on its own, contract third parties to perform penetration tests or red team assessments, and, if appropriate, build an internal red team to perform grey and white box pentesting with more specific parameters and scopes.